---
layout: post
title: "A CSI in Surathkal"
date: 2014-02-05 05:00
comments: true
categories: CSI India Experience
---

One afternoon when I finished my 2PM class and came out at 3 to meet my project
guide, my teammate came 5 minutes late as usual but this time he had the
weirdest excuse to give. Not so much an excuse, what he said made me forget that
he was actually late - "there's a body in front of the department!". 
<!-- more -->
Shocked as I should be, I crossed out several thoughts from my mind when I
looked out of the transparent wall panes of the front of the department - "Could
it be a student? A teacher? Natural death? Accident on the highway? Animal
body?". These are the few times we feel the transparent panes are not a totally
useless ornament for the department, because the view from inside is a nice one.
This time it wasn't so nice, for an ominous crowd was already gathering around a
spot on the side of the highway right where we walk through to enter the West
Side of the campus through a slit on the compound. 

I gave a heads up to my guide about the happenings before we sat down to discuss
the project and he replied "It's all a part of life. Come in, let us continue".
We sat down for an hour or so and when we came out, I had an overwhelming desire
to just be down there at the scene to watch the proceedings. The Wire, one of
the best TV shows of all time, has got me hooked to crime scenes and police
work. So I thought I'd catch a byte of it in real life.

My excitement was slightly dampened when I caught the first glimpse of the scene
- mind you, this was about an hour after the murder. There was no cordoned-off
crime scene, there were no vehicles with beacons (hey, the politicians need
them beacons to parade them around wherever they go, how can they be spared for
silly crime work?), no forensic experts sweeping for DNA and fingerprints and
hair samples, no nothing. There were a couple of police men staring at this and
that, whistling at the occasional bus that stopped at the bus-stop. There were
people, both standing around and in the occasional bus, staring at the small
patch of blood on the ground 'cordoned off' using 2 road-blocks from NITK. The
most serious looking man in the scene was the head of Watch at NITK, in his
khakhi uniform.

I left the scene soon, because there were only photographers taking photos of
blood and people creating rumors. Before I left, I met the police guy and asked
him, "What happened?". He said, "Murder". Of course. 

After chilling out for half an hour in the nearby Amul shop, I came by again to
see what had developed. Hey, there were a couple of police now with gloves on.
Wow, I thought, CSI! The one with the more serious uniform walked around,
searching for something. Hair? Nah, he's not getting any, other than some from
the heads of soon-balding guys like me around the crime scene. Murder weapon?
Maybe. But after an hour and half, now I thought it should be a miracle to find
anything useful in a crime scene thronged by civilians. 

He bent down and picked up something from the gutter with his gloved hand. A
plastic cover that someone had dumped as waste. Then he came back to crime scene,
and picked up a juice carton that was crushed by a hundred footsteps. How were
they evidences, I still wondered, for they looked like all the other garbage in
our campus. Now he bent down near the blood. As I realized what he was doing, my
mind went numb. He scooped up the bloody mood with the carton, and put it into
the cover from the dump. Carefully, he filled 3 more covers from the dump with
the mud from the crime scene. Then he put them all in another big cover that his
assistant had painstakingly collected from the dump, then hung it all on the
handlebar of his white police Pulsar, took off his gloves, drove away. CSI done.

Life was back on track as I hurried to SJA to set up stage for the Hindustani
Shehnai concert that was going to start in an hour. As I went about the
arrangements, a friend showed me a photo on her phone which she said was going
viral on WhatsApp. It was a close-up photo of a body lying in foetal position on
ground.  His guts were spilled out, right arm cut, fingers scattered, head
bludgeoned and was clearly dead. 

{% img cap-top /images/nsfw-murder-pixelated.jpg (NSFW) Photo on WhatsApp %}
